# Web-cam-Motion-Detection
Motion detection is the detection of the changes in the position of an object with respect to its surrounding and vice-versa. These functions are necessary for automatic monitoring, which is provided by our surveillance system.  Lets say,  we want to detect the movement of a certain animal in area, first we have to capture, to trigger the camera while background is static and then we use the background as a base image. So that we can compare the other images and then python can detect if there is change between the first frame and the next frames. For comparison process there are many approaches but here frames are converted from RGB format to GRAY scale format and then compared. Again the frames are converted back to RBG format before storing. The gray scale conversion is done to decrease the pixels values. Whereas the frames are compared pixel by pixel. The difference in the frames gives only the moving objects on the frame.  So Firstly, we will capture the first frame via webcam. This frame will be treated as the baseline frame. Motion will be detected by calculating the phase difference between the baseline frame and the new frame with some object. The new frames will be called Delta frame. Then will refine delta frame using pixel intensity. The refined frame will be called the Threshold frame. Then will apply some intricate image processing technique like shadow removal, Dilation, contouring, etc. on the Threshold frame to capture substantial objects. We will be able to capture the time stamp when an object entered the frame and exited the frame. 
